= Modelizer

* http://github.com/jbarnette/modelizer

== Description

Need a simple, consistent way to create model instances and check
validations in your ActiveRecord 3.1+ tests? Use the Modelizer. Just
don't trust the docs, since lots changed in 5.x and I got lazy.

== Examples

First, enable the Modelizer in your test helper. In Rails, try
something like:

    require "modelizer/all

    class ActiveSupport::TestCase
      include Modelizer
      extend  Modelizer::Validations
    end

Next, define some fixtures and factories. Modelizer will load these
when the module is included, using
<tt>"test/{factories,fixtures}/**/*.rb"</tt> as a default glob. Change
it by setting <tt>Modelizer.glob</tt> before module inclusion.

Fixture and factory definitions look remarkably similar. The only real
difference is that fixtures get loaded into the DB once at module
inclusion and factories don't. Factories will also generally use
autogenerated/random data generators. Some examples:

    # from test/fixtures/user.rb

    fixture :user, User do |u|
      u.account  = use :account
      u.email    = "default@example.org
      u.name     = "A User"
      u.password = "123456"
      u.state    = "active"
    end


    # from test/factories/user.rb

    factory :user, User do |u|
      u.account  = use :account
      u.email    = Faker::Internet.email
      u.name     = Faker::Name.name
      u.password = Faker::Lorem.words(1).first
    end

To get a reference to a fixture, the <tt>use</tt> method is added to your
test class:

    def test_something
      refute_equal use(:artist).name, use("artist/child").name
    end

To get an instance from a factory, the <tt>build</tt> and <tt>create</tt> methods
are available:

    def test_something_else
      assert_equal "foo", build(:artist, name: "foo").name
      refute create(:artist).new_record?
    end

=== Custom Assertions

If you require <tt>"modelizer/all"</tt> or include
<tt>Modelizer::Assertions</tt>, Modelizer adds one additional
assertion, <tt>assert_invalid</tt>.

    assert_invalid :email, model, /is bad/

The third argument is optional.

    def test_pointless_stuff
      assert new_user.valid?
      assert_invalid :name, build(:artist, name: nil)
    end

=== Testing Validations

I should really write some docs for this.

== Installation

    $ gem install modelizer

== License

Copyright 2009-11 John Barnette (code@jbarnette.com)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
